docs for NVSHAS-8325, Namespace Boundary Enforcement(NBE) (#106)
neuvector/docs: docs/05.policy/14.namespaceboundary/14.namespaceboundary.md

---
title: Namespace Boundary Enforcement
taxonomy:
    category: docs
slug: /policy/namespaceboundary
---

### Policy: Namespace Boundary Enforcement

> Customer made request to policy ingress/egress traffic on namespace’s natural boundary. 
> eg.)
> There are 2 namespaces ns1, ns2, 
> in ns1 there are pod1 and pod2,
> in ns2 there are pod3 and pod4
> g1 is created using "label=app1" which includes pod1 and pod3
> g2 is created using "label=app2" which includes pod2 and pod4
> network policy: from g1 to g2 app HTTPS port any action allow
> with namespace boundary enforcement only pod1 can talk to pod2 but not pod1 to pod4, pod3 to pod4 but not pod3 to pod2, it saves user from creating additional rules to realize this restriction.
> 
> <strong>Use label to enable/disable namespace boundary enforcement</strong>
> 
> + **Add label to enable NBE**
> > kubectl label namespace <namespace> NeuvectorNamespaceBoundary=enabled
> 
> + **Remove or change label to disable NBE**
> > kubectl label namespace <namespace> NeuvectorNamespaceBoundary-
> or
> kubectl label namespace <namespace> NeuvectorNamespaceBoundary=disabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, pods in different namespaces, and with different labels, can communicate.

To avoid this behavior, it's usually needed to create additional rules to restrict it.

This policy, `NeuvectorNamespaceBoundary`, allows you to implement a restriction to the communication between pods **belonging to the same namespace** or **sharing natural boundaries** (i.e. part of the same application).

### Enable/disable namespace boundary enforcement

To enable or disable this policy against a namespace, you need to set the following label:

+ Enable `Namespace Boundary Enforcement`

`kubectl label namespace <namespace> NeuvectorNamespaceBoundary=enabled`

+ Disable `Namespace Boundary Enforcement`

`kubectl label namespace <namespace> NeuvectorNamespaceBoundary=disabled`

+ [Optional] Remove the label > This will disable `Namespace Boundary Enforcement`

`kubectl label namespace <namespace> NeuvectorNamespaceBoundary-`

#### Example

Customer made request to policy ingress/egress traffic on namespace’s natural boundary. 
eg.)
There are 2 namespaces ns1, ns2, 
in ns1 there are pod1 and pod2,
in ns2 there are pod3 and pod4
g1 is created using "label=app1" which includes pod1 and pod3
g2 is created using "label=app2" which includes pod2 and pod4
network policy: from g1 to g2 app HTTPS port any action allow
with namespace boundary enforcement only pod1 can talk to pod2 but not pod1 to pod4, pod3 to pod4 but not pod3 to pod2.
```
